After you build a model,
you'll have to train it.
It's important to know when to stop training so that
your performance is maximized on a hold-out validations set.
Monitoring the performance of the model on both training and
validation sets is informative and plays a role in your FDA submission process.
First, we'll talk about how to actually train our models.
In the previous part of this lesson,
we learned about splitting our data into two sets, training and validation.
Now that we've learned how to build a CNN architecture,
we're going to learn how to use these sets to
train our filter weights and evaluate performance.
First, let start with the training set.
This set of data is going to be fed into your CNN over and over again,
while it tries to learn important features of your data.
Each time the entire dataset is passed through the CNN,
we call this one epoch.
At each epoch, we may decide to apply augmentation to some of
our training images so that our CNN doesn't see quite the same images every single time.
At the end of each epoch,
our CNN has something called a loss function to
calculate how different it's prediction is from the ground truth of the training image.
We can call this difference the training loss.
If the loss is small,
it means the CNN did well in classifying the training images that it saw in our epoch.
The network then uses the training loss to go back and update
the weights of every single filter in the layers that we want to train.
This technique is called backpropagation.
It updates weights in a way that makes weights more accurate in the next epoch.
Once these weights are updated,
the training data is processed again in a second epoch,
and the process repeats.
Choosing how many epochs to train for is important.
Training as many epochs as possible is not always useful.
Next, we'll learn how to monitor this loss
over time to know when we should stop training.
So where does our validation data fit in here?
At the end of each epoch,
we learned that we use a loss function for the training loss that
measures how the prediction matches the ground truth of training images.
This training loss was then used to update our filter weights through backpropagation.
Well, we also use that loss function to evaluate the loss on our held-out validation set.
That is, we calculate a validation loss
that measures how the prediction matches the validation data.
Same here, a smaller loss indicates that
the CNN did while classifying a validation image,
except for at this step,
we don't update our weights.
The validation set is just a test of performance of our model,
not teaching it how to be better.